1. Frida Kahlo letter

Diego.
Verdad es, muy grande que yo no quisiera, ni hablar, ni dormir ni hoir, ni querer.
Sentirme enamorada, sin miedo, a la sangre, sin tiempo ni magia, dentro de tu gran
angustia, y, en el mismo ruido de tu corazon. Toda esta cura, si te la pidiera, yo sé
que saria, para tu silencio, solo turbacion.
Te pido violencia, en la sinrazon, y tu, me das gracia, tu luz y color.
Pintarte quisiera, per no hay colores, por hablerlos tantos, en mi confusion, la
forma concreta de mi gran amor.
F.
Cada momento, il es mi niño, mi niño nacido, cada talito, diario, de mi misma.

2. Poem by Eugenio Montale

Spesso il male di vivere ho incontrato

Spesso il male di vivere ho incontrato:
era il rivo strozzato che gorgoglia,
era l’incartocciarsi della foglia
riarsa, era il cavallo stramazzato.
Bene non seppi, fuori del prodigio
che schiude la divina Indifferenza:
era la statua nella sonnolenza
del meriggio, e la nuvola, e il falco alto levato.

3. Manuscript by Bufalini

La Pentecoste
Madre dei Santi, immagine
della città superna,
del Sangue incorruttibile
Conservatrice eterna,
tu, che da tanti secoli
soffri, combatti e preghi,
che le tue tende spieghi
dall'uno all'altro mar;

Campo di quei che sperano,
Chiesa del Dio vivente,
Dov'eri mai? qual angolo
Ti raccogliea nascente...?

....

Compagna del suo gemito,
Conscia dei suoi misteri,
Tu, della sua vittoria
Figlia immortal, dov'eri?
In tuo terror sol vigile,
Sol nell'oblio secura,
Stavi in riposte mura,
Fino a quel sacro dì,
Quando su te lo spirito
Rinnovator discese

....

Quando segnal dei popoli

soffri!
(c'è tutta la visione cristiana [propria della rivoluzione cristiana,
teorica e pratico- politica] della vita, della storia, dell'Assoluto. 
Senza sofferenza — consapevolmente accettata e con la volontà superata — non c'è conquista,
non c'è storia, non c'è verità... 
Culmina in Hegel: la realtà è il divenire, la
verità è nel divenire, l'Assoluto non è il presupposto, ma il 
resul tato. 
Culmina in Marx: la realtà è il lavoro
umano associato. La verità (il regno della libertà) è la conquista degli
uomini associati tutti eguali (come in Cristo tutti figli di Dio) e nella loro sofferenza

4. Letter from Richard West

Temple, Sep. 28. 1739.
If wishes could turn to realities, I would fling down my law books, and sup with you to-night. But, alas, here am I doomed to fix, while you are fluttering from city to city, and enjoying all the pleasures which a gay climate can afford. It is out of the power of my heart to envy your good fortune, yet I cannot help indulging a few natural desires; as for example, to take a walk with you on the banks of the Rhône, and to be climbing up mount Fourviere;

Jam mens prætrepidans avet vagari:
Jam læti studio pedes vigescunt.

However, so long as I am not deprived of your correspondence, so long shall I always find some pleasure in being at home. And, setting all vain curiosity aside, when the fit is over, and my reason begins to come to herself, I have several other powerful motives which might easily cure me of my restless inclinations: Amongst these, my Mother's ill state of health is not the least; which was the reason of our going to Tunbridge, so that you cannot expect much description or amusement from thence. Nor indeed is there much room for either; for all diversions there may be reduced to two articles, gaming and going to church. They were pleased to publish certain Tunbrigiana this season; but such ana! I believe there were never so many vile little verses put together before. So much for Tunbridge: London affords me as little to say. What! so huge a town as London? Yes, consider only how I live in that town. I never go into the gay or high world, and consequently receive nothing from thence to brighten my imagination. The busy world I leave to the busy; and am resolved never to talk politics till I can act at the same time. To tell old stories, or prate of old books, seems a little musty; and toujours Chapon bouilli, won't do. However, for want of better fare, take another little mouthful of my poetry.

O meæ jucunda comes quietis!
Quæ ferè ægrotum solita es levare
Pectus, et sensim ah! nimis ingruentes
Fallere curas:

Quid canes? quanto Lyra dic furore
Gesties, quando hâc reducem sodalem
Glauciam gaudere simul videbis
Meque sub umbrâ?

5. Poem by Thomas Gray 

Sonnet [on the Death of Mr Richard West]

In vain to me the smiling mornings shine,
And reddening Phoebus lifts his golden fire:
The birds in vain their amorous descant join,
Or cheerful fields resume their green attire:
These ears, alas! for other notes repine,
A different object do these eyes require.
My lonely anguish melts no heart but mine;
And in my breast the imperfect joys expire.
Yet morning smiles the busy race to cheer,
And new-born pleasure brings to happier men:
The fields to all their wonted tribute bear;
To warm their little loves the birds complain.
I fruitless mourn to him that cannot hear,
And weep the more because I weep in vain.

6. Letter from William Cody

Washington. D. C.
May 11th /73
My Dear Sister
Lulu sent me your letter I was ever so glad to hear from you And to hear you are all well Lulu has not been well for sometime but she is getting better. We are going to movve to Westchester where Uncle Guss live I am goin to buy me a house there it a beautiful country village one hours ride from Philadelphia or is four hours ride from
New York. Grand Mother is still a live and bids fare to out live us all I will find out what she is worth and about what she intends to do with her property when she dies. Uncle Guss you know was her step son and Aunt Eliza was her step daughter. It is a mixed up affair Uncles Guss and family are the nicest folks in the world. You remember Uncle Enoch Taylor and sister Mother.used to think so much of they live in Jerman Town. We have a bout 17 hundred relations liveing near Philadelphia. We had.
I called on the President and family this evening and am invites to dine with him. That is Bout as near as I will ever come to live in the White House

a family diner while in Phila and there were 42 persons to diner all Uncles Aunts Cousins half cousins and so forth They are all nice good people they liked to talked me to death about our family When I get rich I will have you ^all^ to come and see them— I was goin to send some presents to you all But Lulu said She knowed what to buy better than me so I left Her to do it but She writes me She has been to sick to attend to it but she
will send you something nice when she get well She says if I buy any thing it will be no good to you and the baby She wants to get something that will do you some good. I will surly pay you a visit this summer. as I am goin to go to Nebraska for a hunt this summer I will probaly go to Europe this fall. By the time you answer we will probaly be liveing in Westchester P.A. so write me there
Your affectionate Brother
Will
Love to all
